add Environment variable in the cloud (#810)
grafana/k6-docs: src/data/markdown/docs/03 cloud/03 Manage/04 Environment variables.md

---
title: 'Environment variables'
excerpt: 'How to use environment variables in the cloud'
---

Environment Variables are key-value pairs that you configure at the organization level.
k6 encrypts all values before being storing them in our database, and they remain encrypted until needed for a test runs.
If you reference a variable in a test script, k6 will insert the value of the variable on the server that runs the test.
You can use Environment Variables to store sensitive (and non-sensitive) information that you want to reference in your test-scripts. Managing environment variables in one central place brings the following benefits:
- Reduced data exposure
- An easier way to re-use and change values across different test scripts.

> Changes to an Environment Variable won't apply to already started Test-Runs, they only apply to new upcoming Test-Runs.

## Manage environment variables

Only owners and admins can create, modify, and delete environment variables.

> If you have approriate permission, you can manage environment variables with these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have appropriate permission, you can manage environment variables with these steps:
```

---
title: 'Environment variables'
excerpt: 'How to use environment variables in the cloud'
---

> Environment Variables are key-value pairs configured at the organization level. All values are encrypted before being stored in our database and remain encrypted until they are needed for test-runs. You reference environment variables within a test-script and the variables are interpolated on the server that runs the Test-Run. Environment Variables can be used to store sensitive (and non-sensitive) information that you want to reference in your test-scripts. Managing environment variables in one central place reduces the data exposure and ensures that the changes takes effect in all test-runs that use this variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Environment Variables are key-value pairs configured at the organization level. All values are encrypted before being stored in our database and remain encrypted until they are needed for test-runs. You reference environment variables within a test-script and the variables are interpolated on the server that runs the Test-Run. Environment Variables can be used to store sensitive (and non-sensitive) information that you want to reference in your test-scripts. Managing environment variables in one central place reduces the data exposure and ensures that the changes take effect in all test-runs that use these variables.
```

> Environment Variables are key-value pairs configured at the organization level. All values are encrypted before being stored in our database and remain encrypted until they are needed for test-runs. You reference environment variables within a test-script and the variables are interpolated on the server that runs the Test-Run. Environment Variables can be used to store sensitive (and non-sensitive) information that you want to reference in your test-scripts. Managing environment variables in one central place reduces the data exposure and ensures that the changes take effect in all test-runs that use these variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Environment Variables are key-value pairs that you configure at the organization level.
k6 encrypts all values before being storing them in our database, and they remain encrypted until needed for a test runs.
If you reference a variable in a test script, k6 will insert the value of the variable on the server that runs the test.

You can use Environment Variables to store sensitive (and non-sensitive) information that you want to reference in your test-scripts. Managing environment variables in one central place brings the following benefits:
- Reduced data exposure
- An easier way to re-use and change values across different test scripts.
```

> Changes to an Environment Variable won't apply to already started Test-Runs, they only apply to new upcoming Test-Runs.

> ## Manage environment variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Managing environment variables
```

> ## Managing environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manage environment variables
```

> Environment Variables can be managed in Organization Settings: Select your profile icon, then **Manage > Environment variables**. Permission to create, reveal, modify and delete environment variables is restricted to Owners and Admins of the organization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only owners and admins can create, modify, and delete environment variables.
If you have approriate permission, you can manage environment variables with these steps:
1. Head to **Organization Settings**.
1. Select your profile icon, then **Manage > Environment variables**.

```

Reviewer: Probably don't want to say reveal, since this could be done through logs by anyone.

![k6 Environment Variable](./images/envvars/environment-variables.png)

> #### Naming environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Rules for environment variable names
```

> The following rules must apply for naming an environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following restrictions apply to environment variable names:
```

- Names can only contain alphanumeric characters (`[a-z]`, `[A-Z]`, `[0-9]`) or underscores (`_`). Spaces are not allowed.
- Names must not start with the `K6_CLOUD` prefix.
- Names must not start with a number.
- Names are not case-sensitive.
- Names must be unique.

> #### Declare new environment variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Declaring a new environment variable
```

> #### Declaring a new environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Declaring a new environment variable
```

> Enter the Name for your Environment Variable. Then, enter the respective Value. Optionally, you can also add a brief description then click **submit**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Give your Environment Variable a `name`, then enter the respective Value.
1. Optionally, add a brief description.
1. Select **Submit**. 
```

![k6 Environment Variable](./images/envvars/create-environment-variable.png)

> ## Accessing environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Access environment variables
```

> ### Accessing environment variables

Reviewer 3: Should this be H2? I think it does not belong to `Managing environment variables` section

> The cloud Environment Variable can be referenced in the [script-editor](https://k6.io/docs/cloud/creating-and-running-a-test/script-editor/) through the global `__ENV` variable, the same way as in [k6 CLI Environment Variable](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/environment-variables/#passing-environment-variables-to-the-k6-script)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Environment Variables set up on k6 Cloud can be referenced in your k6 script through the __ENV variable, like other [k6 Environment Variables](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/environment-variables/#passing-environment-variables-to-the-k6-script)
```

```javascript
import http from 'k6/http';
import { sleep } from 'k6';

export default function () {
  const params = {
    headers: { Authorization: __ENV.AUTH_TOKEN },
  };
  const res = http.get(__ENV.SERVICE_URL, params);
  sleep(1);
}
```

<Blockquote mod="warning">

> Current environment variables implementation don't prevent printing values to the log, you should avoid printing sensitive data to the log intentionally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's essential to stress that the current implementation doesn't prevent printing values to the log (or restrict exposing a variable any other way). You should avoid printing sensitive data to the log intentionally.
```

> It's essential to stress that the current environment variables implementation doesn't prevent printing values to the log (or restrict exposing a variable any other way). You should avoid printing sensitive data to the log intentionally.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The current environment variables implementation doesn't prevent printing values to the log (or restrict exposing a variable any other way). You should avoid printing sensitive data to the log intentionally.
```

</Blockquote>

> ## Running tests with k6 cloud command

Reviewer 3: `Running tests with k6 cloud command` this section seems to be out of context.

Author: You mean out of context because what you mentioned below about `differences between the "Execution modes"` or the title does not make sense?

Reviewer: @ppcano Why do you say so? I like the current positioning, since it seems like the logical workflow.

1. Find the page to manage variables.
2. Name one.
3. Reference it.
4. Run it.

Reviewer 3: Apologies for being short on the review.

Yes, this order is logical:
- Manage (create) environment variables
- Reference it on the k6 script
- Run a cloud test

IMO, the logical order would be `Run a cloud test`: either using the Web App or CLI. Not `Run tests with k6 cloud command`.

This is why I find this section a little out of context.

1 - It describes only the case for running a cloud test with the CLI. 
2 -  I am biased but I find the following obvious:

> Environment variables set up on the cloud can be referenced on test runs run with k6 cloud command.

This is the only sentence in this section and don't add any additional information to me. Is this not what we said in the previous section?

> If you create an Environment Variable on k6 Cloud, you can reference it in your k6 script through the __ENV variable,

I'd consider either removing it or detailing more of the options to run a cloud test. But the latter could be redundant, so I lean more toward the former. 

Another alternative:

- Manage environment variables
- Access environment variables
- Order of preferences
- Limitations

Reviewer: Oh. I didn't realize how short that section was. You're right.

> I'd consider ... removing 

Agreed.

Environment variables set up on the cloud can be referenced on test runs run with `k6 cloud` command. 

### Limitations

> Referencing environment variables set in the cloud app in local scripts is possible, but it doesn't work in all cases. If the code in the [init context](https://k6.io/docs/getting-started/running-k6#the-init-context-and-the-default-function) depends on the value of the environment variable, the test run may fail.

Reviewer 3: Is this a limitation for all Environment variables or only for Env. variables set on the cloud?

If the former, this limitation should be described at https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/environment-variables.

If the later, we should point out that is a limitation between local and cloud test.

Why? Because one of k6 design goals is not to have differences between the "Execution modes" -> https://k6.io/docs/getting-started/running-k6/#execution-modes

See here one example -> https://k6.io/docs/cloud/creating-and-running-a-test/cloud-tests-from-the-cli/#differences-between-local-and-cloud-execution

Author: This limitation could not exist before implementing Env. variables in the cloud, because previously there is no reason to reference an Env. variable that does not exist or not set through CLI flag. Hence I would say this is specific to Env. variables set on the cloud. Yet I'm not sure if this is considered as difference in excution mode as in local script you can't as well reference Env. variables that does not exist. The difference here that if you want to benifit from Env. variables on the cloud when running from CLI (`k6 cloud`), you need to make sure it will be first time evaluated in the cloud as the the value is not available locally, otherwise it [may] fail.

Reviewer 3: > This limitation could not exist before implementing Env. variables in the cloud, because previously there is no reason to reference an Env. variable that does not exist or not set through CLI flag.

You can forget to set the variable through the `-e` flag.

> you need to make sure it will be first time evaluated in the cloud as the the value is not available locally, otherwise it [may] fail.

How does it fail?

I have not been able to test this. Please, can we sync for this one in Slack? 

I think the problem is a known issue of cloud tests that happens independently of using environment variables.

I might be wrong, but I think it was something like:

When running a cloud test, the "init code" is executed before deploying the test on the load generator instances, so a test whose init code is not "error-safe" will fail when deploying the test.

I might be totally wrong but want to double check with the team.

Author: Yes you are totally right, this not cloud env specific, rather what you exactly explained. I think I just wanted to stress this in the context of the cloud environemnt variable, but yes it can be consfusing.

Reviewer 3: Then, I suggest removing the limitations section on this page.

This "gotcha" should have a proper error message and document somewhere else on the cloud docs.
